dissertation.md, before:

﻿---
title: Building a Platform for the Escape Game Community \break
  \large COM3610 Dissertation Project
subtitle: 
author: |
  Simon Fish | Supervisor: Andrew Stratton \
  This report is submitted in partial fulfilment of the requirement for \
  the degree of Computer Science with a Year in Industry by Simon Fish.
geometry: margin=1in
papersize: a4
links-as-notes: true
bibliography: [bibliography.bib]
link-citations: true
table-of-contents: true
documentclass: report
header-includes: |
  \usepackage{lscape}
  \newcommand{\blandscape}{\begin{landscape}}
  \newcommand{\elandscape}{\end{landscape}}
---
\makeatletter

\newcommand\frontmatter{%
    \cleardoublepage
  %\@mainmatterfalse
  \pagenumbering{roman}}

\newcommand\mainmatter{%
    \cleardoublepage
 % \@mainmattertrue
  \pagenumbering{arabic}}

\newcommand\backmatter{%
  \if@openright
    \cleardoublepage
  \else
    \clearpage
  \fi
 % \@mainmatterfalse
   }
\makeatother
\frontmatter
<!-- First page -->
\hspace{0pt}
\vfill
### Signed Declaration

\begin{center}

All sentences or passages quoted in this report from other people's work have
been specifically acknowledged by clear cross-referencing to author, work and
page(s). Any illustrations that are not the work of the author of this report
have been used with the explicit permission of the originator and are
specifically acknowledged. I understand that failure to do this amounts to
plagiarism and will be considered grounds for failure in this project and the
degree examination as a whole.

Simon Fish
\end{center}
\vfill
\hspace{0pt}
\pagebreak
<!-- Abstract -->
<!--
This should be two or three short paragraphs (100-150 words total), summarising
the dissertation. It is important that this is not just a restatement of the
original project outline. A suggested flow is background, project aims and main
achievements. A bad abstract would have a final paragraph that just said "the
achievements will be described" - this is useless, as it says nothing. From the
abstract a reader should be able to ascertain if the project is of interest to
them and presents results of which they would like to know more details.
-->
### Abstract

<!-- - explain topic -->
Escape rooms are physical, interactive experiences in which a group of
participants must solve puzzles to escape a locked room, solve a mystery, or
otherwise meet some goal in a particular timespan.
<!-- - explain content -->
This project aimed to build a tool primarily to serve the needs of escape room
maintainers. Though the original brief expressed intent to craft a networked
solution for use within the escape room itself, research and scope changed this
focus. Instead, a web application was developed as a social network between
escape room maintainers and enthusiasts.
<!-- - explain highlights -->
The final product is built with industry-standard knowledge, principles, tools
and best practices amassed during the degree programme. 
<!-- - explain purpose of paper -->
This dissertation paper serves to document, and justify decisions made along,
the process of development of this product.

### Acknowledgements

My deepest thanks to my family, my friends at University of Sheffield Tea
Society, and my mentor Dalbinder Kular. All have strongly supported me this
year. Thanks also to Andrew Stratton for supervising and providing a guiding
hand during the project. Thanks to Liam Woff of the Lockup Escape Room in
Sheffield for providing helpful insights and allowing me to bring a group to his
escape room. Finally, thank you to those working in Development at UKCloud for
giving me the skills needed to build Blacklight - special mentions to Ben
Saunders, Chris Couzens, and Oliver Nye.

<!-- Contents -->
\tableofcontents
\mainmatter

Commit message:

Make changes in line with feedback from supervisor
I need to read more closely and review my tone. I also need to write a
background section - I don't want to steal too much from the word count
of other sections, though.

dissertation.md, after:

﻿---
title: Building a Platform for the Escape Game Community \break
  \large COM3610 Dissertation Project
subtitle: 
author: |
  Simon Fish | Supervisor: Andrew Stratton \
  This report is submitted in partial fulfilment of the requirement for \
  the degree of Computer Science with a Year in Industry by Simon Fish.
geometry: margin=1in
papersize: a4
links-as-notes: true
bibliography: [bibliography.bib]
link-citations: true
table-of-contents: true
documentclass: report
header-includes: |
  \usepackage{lscape}
  \newcommand{\blandscape}{\begin{landscape}}
  \newcommand{\elandscape}{\end{landscape}}
---
\makeatletter

\newcommand\frontmatter{%
    \cleardoublepage
  %\@mainmatterfalse
  \pagenumbering{roman}}

\newcommand\mainmatter{%
    \cleardoublepage
 % \@mainmattertrue
  \pagenumbering{arabic}}

\newcommand\backmatter{%
  \if@openright
    \cleardoublepage
  \else
    \clearpage
  \fi
 % \@mainmatterfalse
   }
\makeatother
\frontmatter
<!-- First page -->
\hspace{0pt}
\vfill
### Signed Declaration

\begin{center}

All sentences or passages quoted in this report from other people's work have
been specifically acknowledged by clear cross-referencing to author, work and
page(s). Any illustrations that are not the work of the author of this report
have been used with the explicit permission of the originator and are
specifically acknowledged. I understand that failure to do this amounts to
plagiarism and will be considered grounds for failure in this project and the
degree examination as a whole.

Simon Fish
\end{center}
\vfill
\hspace{0pt}
\pagebreak
<!-- Abstract -->
<!--
This should be two or three short paragraphs (100-150 words total), summarising
the dissertation. It is important that this is not just a restatement of the
original project outline. A suggested flow is background, project aims and main
achievements. A bad abstract would have a final paragraph that just said "the
achievements will be described" - this is useless, as it says nothing. From the
abstract a reader should be able to ascertain if the project is of interest to
them and presents results of which they would like to know more details.
-->
### Abstract

<!-- - explain topic -->
Escape rooms are physical, interactive experiences in which a group of
participants must solve puzzles to escape a locked room, solve a mystery, or
otherwise meet some goal in a particular timespan.
<!-- - explain content -->
This project aimed to build a tool primarily to serve the needs of escape room
maintainers. Though the original brief expressed intent to craft a networked
solution for use within the escape room itself, research and scope changed this
focus. Instead, a web application was developed as a social network between
escape room maintainers and enthusiasts.
<!-- - explain highlights -->
The final product is built with industry-standard knowledge, principles, tools
and best practices amassed during the degree programme. 
<!-- - explain purpose of paper -->
This dissertation paper serves to document, and justify decisions made along,
the process of development of this product.

### COVID-19 Impact statement

COVID-19 has reduced the value of the initial product specification to its
intended audience. This in turn has made it impractical to begin user testing.
Plans were in place to engage with the local escape room maintainers and show
them the platform as part of user testing. These were made impractical by the
lockdown orders, which jeopardise escape room businesses. As discussed in the
chapter on the results of the project, changes could be made to the final
product to cater for the changing nature of the industry in the face of the
virus.

### Acknowledgements

Thanks to Andrew Stratton for supervising and providing a guiding hand during
the project. Thanks also to Liam Woff of the Lockup Escape Room in Sheffield for
providing helpful insights and allowing me to bring a group to his escape room.
Thank you to those working in Development at UKCloud for giving me the skills
needed to build Blacklight - special mentions to Ben Saunders, Chris Couzens,
and Oliver Nye. Finally, my deepest thanks to my family, my friends at
University of Sheffield Tea Society, and my mentor Dalbinder Kular. All have
strongly supported me this year.

<!-- Contents -->
\tableofcontents
\mainmatter
