# Background and Motivation

<!--
- explain escape rooms, inc origin (nicholson)
- why are you doing your lit review on escape rooms?
-->

Escape rooms are physical, interactive experiences in which a group of
participants must solve puzzles to escape a locked room, solve a mystery, or
otherwise meet some goal in a particular timespan. They are a phenomenon that
has existed since around 2007 [@nicholson2015peeking], and are a growing
industry. Escape rooms are run both by enthusiasts as solo ventures, and as
franchises across the country. Nicholson [-@nicholson2015peeking] documents
escape rooms as the culmination of a variety of media. Nicholson identifies
puzzle hunts as team-based problem-solving challenges<!-- TODO: is this a quote?
-->, which, with treasure hunts, appears most similar to escape rooms. Various
others have lent features to escape rooms, such as immersion in a story as the
"hero", which @duplessie2013go reports as being something participants enjoy.
This is embodied by live-action roleplaying, another inspiration for the genre
[@nicholson2015peeking]. Nicholson presents the precursors to escape rooms in
further depth in his paper - Figure 2.1 summarises these.

![Nicholson (2019) presents the precursors to, and inspirations for, the escape room phenomenon in this diagram. Adapted with permission from Nicholson, Scott. 2015. “Peeking Behind the Locked Door: A Survey of Escape Room Facilities.” *White paper available online at http://scottnicholson.com/pubs/erfacwhite.pdf*.](nicholson-figure.svg)

Escape rooms have grown popular in many locations across the world as a
recreational activity [@nicholson2015peeking; @stasiak2016escape], even serving
as a tourist attraction [@dilek2018real]. Nicholson reports that the *Real
Escape Game* by SCRAP was the earliest well-documented activity branded as such.
SCRAP has gone on to develop escape rooms at a much larger scale than the
typical escape room, which serves teams of an average size of 4.58 people
[@nicholson2015peeking].

My goal in writing this literature survey is to understand not only the needs of
the commercial escape room industry, but also the differing requirements for the
application of escape rooms in education and corporate contexts. The major
difference between these contexts is that the commercial escape room industry is
most regularly founded on permanent fixtures, and educational escape rooms are
often applied in a classroom environment, which can imply more limited space and
the need to tear down the room after it has been completed. These different
environments dictate some differences between escape room experiences. However,
as I intend to show in the literature survey, inspiration can be taken from both
contrasting environments and applied universally.
