contents/2-requirements-and-analysis.md, before:

# Requirements and Analysis

<!--
Detail the aims and objectives of your project and analyse individual parts in
detail. The analysis may cover more than is finally implemented. As a result of
the analysis, you should state what will be covered by the project and what will
not be done and why. Due consideration should also be given to how you will
evaluate your work. Evaluation is one of the most important aspects of any piece
of work and it should be thought about in the early stages. Consider tests or
experiments that can be conducted to establish the success of the work.

This should state, in a more detailed way, the objectives of the project by
requirement and the analysis should break the problem down into manageable
steps. There may be more than one suitable approach; the analysis may cover more
of the area than is finally implemented. Testing and evaluation should be given
due consideration. It is important that you state how you will evaluate your
work. For a design project it is appropriate to consider testing at the same
time as specification.
-->

The objective of the project was to build a tool for the escape room community.
The exact form in which this would come was to be dictated by the nature of the
problem - if the scenario called for a tool that would be active inside escape
rooms themselves, it would have been more likely to be hardware. At the initial
stage, this was the intent - a set of networked microcontrollers/SoCs that would
unite to track the escape room experience - but this was abandoned. The idea of
building an escape room, even in the form of a prototype, was out of scope.
Additionally, @liam2019 warned that digital uptake in traditional escape rooms
may be middling due to the inherent risk and time involvement, as discussed in
the literature survey.

I met with Liam on the 20th November to discuss the challenges he faces as an
escape room owner, and his philosophy in developing the rooms he offers at The
Lockup. Liam and I discussed some areas that could be targeted, which inspired a
survey I sent to the Facebook group created by @nicholson2015peeking. This group
is for escape room enthusiasts, encompassing both maintainers and participants,
to which I sought and gained access as part of my work. The majority of posts
during research were from enthusiasts who would report back from rooms they have
attended, though I have seen posts about types of puzzles that can be
implemented. I chose to survey this group, as it appeared to be a central hub
for what seemed, to an outsider, to be a sparse online community. 

From the seven responses received, the following conclusions were drawn:

- The majority of the group already shares photos online, but those that do not
  are all interested by the prospect of it
- Memberships, in-character communications, advertisement among other escape
  rooms, and participant metrics are all of interest
- Memberships are agreed upon by those interested as something that should not
  be done without the involvement of technology

I was able to elicit a direction from these conclusions - the idea of a social
network shared by escape room maintainers and enthusiasts allowed me to
potentially target several of these factors at once. In particular, the purpose
of this social network would be to allow escape rooms to advertise among others
of their ilk and share photos. I concluded my analysis of the results by setting
a goal statement.

---

**Goal Statement**

To design and build a system that:

- allows escape room owners to share photos with their community
- allows escape room owners to advertise among other escape rooms
- allows escape room enthusiasts to discover new escape rooms to tackle
- allows escape room enthusiasts to track which escape rooms they have cleared

---

<!-- TODO: appendix for initial requirements -->

With these as an initial guide, I began to set requirements using the MSCW
system, aiming to complete all defined as **Must**- and **Should**-Have by the
end of the project. Though these were not formally defined and did not dictate
the order in which I completed tasks, I thought on what I had learned during my
year in industry - while haste was of the essence, I made strides to emulate the
software development process as I had seen it firsthand.

Stories were written with parts of the goal statement ('epics') in mind and
estimated according to their complexity using a modified Fibonacci scale. In
agile software development, complexity estimates are preferred to time estimates
as the former are easier to settle upon [@karlesky2008agile]. Stories with
estimates any greater than 13 would need to be broken down into smaller stories.
This was a principle I kept in mind from my year in industry. Atlassian suggests
a differing scale and limit, but the basic principle of keeping stories small
and manageable is there. Velocity is of the essence, and smaller tickets assist
with that. <!-- https://www.atlassian.com/agile/project-management/estimation -->

Another factor that was kept in mind when creating stories was keeping them
open. Stories, as often as possible, would need to describe what the user would
wish to achieve, as opposed to what the developer working on them should aim to
do. Framing stories from this perspective allowed their implementation to remain
open to change and interpretation.

As mentioned in the previous chapter, I have had more hands-on experience with
Scrum than with Kanban. Kanban is employed when more flexibility is desired. It
prioritises throughput and encourages a "culture of 'done'" by enforcing
work-in-progress limits<!-- https://www.atlassian.com/agile/kanban/wip-limits
-->.With this in mind, it would be difficult to set more than two development
milestones. Treating each MSCW category as an epic and taking the amount of time
necessary for work on this report and my other modules into account, I aimed to
work on the project for a month, devoting about two weeks to each milestone.

I figured that each milestone would take a similar amount of time - while Rails'
built-in generators would likely ease the burden of scaffolding the initial
functionality, setting that groundwork in the right way would take slow and
careful decisions. Scaffolds would dictate the flow of the rest of the project
to a degree.

- **Dev commenced** Mar 12th
- **Must done** Mar 26th (actual 24th)
- **Should done** Apr 16th (actual 13th)

After setting my focus, I decided my solution would take the form of a web
application. Ruby on Rails was chosen as the development platform. The QOC
analysis below was the source of this decision, in which I weighed up other
potential candidates such as Iron (Rust), ASP.NET MVC 5 (C#), and Next.js.

|  | **Priority** | 4 | 5 | 4 | 2 | 4 | 3 | 3 | 5 |
|:-----:|:----------------:|:-----------:|:-------------:|:---------:|:-------------:|:--------------------------:|:----------------------------:|:---------:|:-----------------:|
|  | **Criteria** | Famili-<br>arity | Documen-<br>tation | Sta-<br>bility | Linux support | Available Docker resources | Developer tools (generators) | Comm-<br>unity | Develop-<br>ment cycle |
| 145 | Rails (ERB) | 5 | 5 | 5 | 5 | 5 | 5 | 5 | 4 |
| 108 | Next.js | 3 | 4 | 3 | 5 | 5 | 1 | 2 | 5 |
| 109 | ASP.NET MVC 5 | 2 | 5 | 5 | 1 | 5 | 5 | 3 | 2 |
| 66 | Iron | 1 | 2 | 1 | 5 | 3 | 1 | 1 | 4 |
| 130 | Rails (React) | 4 | 4 | 5 | 5 | 5 | 3 | 5 | 4 |

Originally, I weighed ERB and React against one another as view engines. This
estimation was taken on the assumption that I would use React even where
interactivity and state management were not required. In hindsight, this
approach would have slowed development. Instead, my final approach of applying
React only where functional improved the quality of the application without
hampering development time. I would have liked to have combiend the two further
and made the site entirely usable without the need for JS, "embrac[ing] HTML
over the wire" as Rails creator David Heinemer-Hansson encourages. I was not
aware of the concept of progressive enhancement at the time.
<!-- FIXME: https://gds.blog.gov.uk/2013/10/21/how-many-people-are-missing-out-on-javascript-enhancement/ -->
<!-- FIXME: https://twitter.com/dhh/status/1223251586874396672 -->
<!-- FIXME:: https://www.atlassian.com/agile/kanban/kanban-vs-scrum
-->

Commit message:

Label table, fix intro header

contents/2-requirements-and-analysis.md, after:

# Requirements and Analysis

<!--
Detail the aims and objectives of your project and analyse individual parts in
detail. The analysis may cover more than is finally implemented. As a result of
the analysis, you should state what will be covered by the project and what will
not be done and why. Due consideration should also be given to how you will
evaluate your work. Evaluation is one of the most important aspects of any piece
of work and it should be thought about in the early stages. Consider tests or
experiments that can be conducted to establish the success of the work.

This should state, in a more detailed way, the objectives of the project by
requirement and the analysis should break the problem down into manageable
steps. There may be more than one suitable approach; the analysis may cover more
of the area than is finally implemented. Testing and evaluation should be given
due consideration. It is important that you state how you will evaluate your
work. For a design project it is appropriate to consider testing at the same
time as specification.
-->

The objective of the project was to build a tool for the escape room community.
The exact form in which this would come was to be dictated by the nature of the
problem - if the scenario called for a tool that would be active inside escape
rooms themselves, it would have been more likely to be hardware. At the initial
stage, this was the intent - a set of networked microcontrollers/SoCs that would
unite to track the escape room experience - but this was abandoned. The idea of
building an escape room, even in the form of a prototype, was out of scope.
Additionally, @liam2019 warned that digital uptake in traditional escape rooms
may be middling due to the inherent risk and time involvement, as discussed in
the literature survey.

I met with Liam on the 20th November to discuss the challenges he faces as an
escape room owner, and his philosophy in developing the rooms he offers at The
Lockup. Liam and I discussed some areas that could be targeted, which inspired a
survey I sent to the Facebook group created by @nicholson2015peeking. This group
is for escape room enthusiasts, encompassing both maintainers and participants,
to which I sought and gained access as part of my work. The majority of posts
during research were from enthusiasts who would report back from rooms they have
attended, though I have seen posts about types of puzzles that can be
implemented. I chose to survey this group, as it appeared to be a central hub
for what seemed, to an outsider, to be a sparse online community. 

From the seven responses received, the following conclusions were drawn:

- The majority of the group already shares photos online, but those that do not
  are all interested by the prospect of it
- Memberships, in-character communications, advertisement among other escape
  rooms, and participant metrics are all of interest
- Memberships are agreed upon by those interested as something that should not
  be done without the involvement of technology

I was able to elicit a direction from these conclusions - the idea of a social
network shared by escape room maintainers and enthusiasts allowed me to
potentially target several of these factors at once. In particular, the purpose
of this social network would be to allow escape rooms to advertise among others
of their ilk and share photos. I concluded my analysis of the results by setting
a goal statement.

---

**Goal Statement**

To design and build a system that:

- allows escape room owners to share photos with their community
- allows escape room owners to advertise among other escape rooms
- allows escape room enthusiasts to discover new escape rooms to tackle
- allows escape room enthusiasts to track which escape rooms they have cleared

---

<!-- TODO: appendix for initial requirements -->

With these as an initial guide, I began to set requirements using the MSCW
system, aiming to complete all defined as **Must**- and **Should**-Have by the
end of the project. Though these were not formally defined and did not dictate
the order in which I completed tasks, I thought on what I had learned during my
year in industry - while haste was of the essence, I made strides to emulate the
software development process as I had seen it firsthand.

Stories were written with parts of the goal statement ('epics') in mind and
estimated according to their complexity using a modified Fibonacci scale. In
agile software development, complexity estimates are preferred to time estimates
as the former are easier to settle upon [@karlesky2008agile]. Stories with
estimates any greater than 13 would need to be broken down into smaller stories.
This was a principle I kept in mind from my year in industry. Atlassian suggests
a differing scale and limit, but the basic principle of keeping stories small
and manageable is there. Velocity is of the essence, and smaller tickets assist
with that. <!-- https://www.atlassian.com/agile/project-management/estimation -->

Another factor that was kept in mind when creating stories was keeping them
open. Stories, as often as possible, would need to describe what the user would
wish to achieve, as opposed to what the developer working on them should aim to
do. Framing stories from this perspective allowed their implementation to remain
open to change and interpretation.

As mentioned in the previous chapter, I have had more hands-on experience with
Scrum than with Kanban. Kanban is employed when more flexibility is desired. It
prioritises throughput and encourages a "culture of 'done'" by enforcing
work-in-progress limits<!-- https://www.atlassian.com/agile/kanban/wip-limits
-->.With this in mind, it would be difficult to set more than two development
milestones. Treating each MSCW category as an epic and taking the amount of time
necessary for work on this report and my other modules into account, I aimed to
work on the project for a month, devoting about two weeks to each milestone.

I figured that each milestone would take a similar amount of time - while Rails'
built-in generators would likely ease the burden of scaffolding the initial
functionality, setting that groundwork in the right way would take slow and
careful decisions. Scaffolds would dictate the flow of the rest of the project
to a degree.

- **Dev commenced** Mar 12th
- **Must done** Mar 26th (actual 24th)
- **Should done** Apr 16th (actual 13th)

After setting my focus, I decided my solution would take the form of a web
application. Ruby on Rails was chosen as the development platform. The QOC
analysis below was the source of this decision, in which I weighed up other
potential candidates such as Iron (Rust), ASP.NET MVC 5 (C#), and Next.js.

|  | **Priority** | 4 | 5 | 4 | 2 | 4 | 3 | 3 | 5 |
|:-----:|:----------------:|:-----------:|:-------------:|:---------:|:-------------:|:--------------------------:|:----------------------------:|:---------:|:-----------------:|
|  | **Criteria** | Famili-<br>arity | Documen-<br>tation | Sta-<br>bility | Linux support | Available Docker resources | Developer tools (generators) | Comm-<br>unity | Develop-<br>ment cycle |
| 145 | Rails (ERB) | 5 | 5 | 5 | 5 | 5 | 5 | 5 | 4 |
| 108 | Next.js | 3 | 4 | 3 | 5 | 5 | 1 | 2 | 5 |
| 109 | ASP.NET MVC 5 | 2 | 5 | 5 | 1 | 5 | 5 | 3 | 2 |
| 66 | Iron | 1 | 2 | 1 | 5 | 3 | 1 | 1 | 4 |
| 130 | Rails (React) | 4 | 4 | 5 | 5 | 5 | 3 | 5 | 4 |

Table: QOC chart for choice of stack, with priority values and totals revealed.

Originally, I weighed ERB and React against one another as view engines. This
estimation was taken on the assumption that I would use React even where
interactivity and state management were not required. In hindsight, this
approach would have slowed development. Instead, my final approach of applying
React only where functional improved the quality of the application without
hampering development time. I would have liked to have combiend the two further
and made the site entirely usable without the need for JS, "embrac[ing] HTML
over the wire" as Rails creator David Heinemer-Hansson encourages. I was not
aware of the concept of progressive enhancement at the time.
<!-- FIXME: https://gds.blog.gov.uk/2013/10/21/how-many-people-are-missing-out-on-javascript-enhancement/ -->
<!-- FIXME: https://twitter.com/dhh/status/1223251586874396672 -->
<!-- FIXME:: https://www.atlassian.com/agile/kanban/kanban-vs-scrum
-->
