contents/7-refs-appendices.md, before:

# References

::: {#refs}
:::

\backmatter

# Appendices

\pagebreak

## Appendix I: Initial Requirements

\blandscape

| MSCW | Relates to... | As a... | I want to...                                                     | So that...                           | Estimate |
| --------- | ------------- | ------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | --- |
| M         | sharing photos | maintainer  | upload photos to the site                                        | Potential customers have an idea of what the room is like and who else has been      | 5   |
| M         | sharing photos | maintainer  | remove photos from the site                                      | In the event of a DMCA/GDPR request, i can answer appropriately                    | 2   |
| M         | advertising    | maintainer  | create a public listing                                          | My room is advertised among others                                                   | 8   |
| M         | advertising    | maintainer  | remove a public listing                                          | My room is no longer shown, if that's what i wish for                              | 5   |
| M         | advertising    | maintainer  | edit a public listing                                            | My room's details are up to date                                                     | 5   |
| M         | advertising    | maintainer  | create multiple public listings against the same profile         | All of my available escape games can be represented individually                     | 2   |
| S         | advertising    | maintainer  | show links to the rest of my public listings from each one       | Customers can browse between my available rooms to find one that's suitable for them | 2   |
| S         | advertising    | maintainer  | define the difficulty of my room                                 | Potential customers know what they're up against                                     | 2   |
| S         | advertising    | viewer | see the difficulties of rooms                                    | I know what i'm up against                                                           | 1   |
| M         | advertising    | viewer | search for escape rooms                                          | It's easier for me to find a room suitable for me                                    | 13  |
| S         | advertising    | viewer | filter a room search by difficulty                               | The room i choose to take on has the appropriate level of challenge                  | 3   |
| S         | advertising    | viewer | filter a room search by location                                 | The room i choose to take on is in the appropriate location for me                   | 5   |
| S         | advertising    | viewer | filter a room search by distance from me                         | The room i choose to take on is in the appropriate location for me                   | 5   |
| S         | sharing photos | viewer | upload photos to the site against my profile                     | I have a public record of which escape rooms i have attended                         | 5   |
| M         | sharing photos | viewer | upload photos to the site against an escape room                 | The photos are visible on my public profile and friends/family can view them         | 5   |
| M         | login          | user   | sign up with email and password                                  | I have an account                                                                    | 8   |
| S         | login          | user   | have my password checked for strength                            | It is verified secure                                                                | 5   |
| W         | login          | user   | have a public profile                                            | My records are visible to others                                                     | 5   |
| W         | login          | user   | toggle privacy on my profile                                     | It is not visible to others if i don't want it to be                                 | 2   |
| W         | login          | user   | toggle privacy on my profile per-field                           | I have control over what others can see about me                                     | 13  |
| C         | login          | user   | sign in with other social networks (facebook, twitter, tumblr) | It is easier for me to share to those networks                                       | 8   |
| M         | social | viewer | record that i have finished a room                               | It appears on my profile                                                             | 8   |
| W         | social | maintainer  | configure milestones for my room                                 | Multi-stage rooms can be represented appropriately                                   | 13  |
| W         | social | user   | view a timeline                                                  | Others' clears are visible to me                                                     | 5   |
| S         | login          | user   | reset my password via email                                      | My password is changed                                                               | 5   |
| C         | login          | user   | use two-factor authentication                                    | The login flow has an additional security layer                                      | 13  |
| S         | advertising    | maintainer  | view metrics for my profile                                      |                                                                                      | 21  |
| M         | advertising    | maintainer  | choose which of my photos is the default shown                   | In search results, the default is shown first                                      | 13  |
| S         | advertising    | maintainer  | change the order in which my photos appear                       | My profile displays the photos in this order                                         | 13  |                                                                                            |
| S         | advertising    | maintainer  | use a markup language to write my profile                        | Titles, bolded sections, etc. can be shown with the correct formatting             | 5   |

\elandscape

## Appendix II: Escape Room Owner Survey

\pagebreak

**Eligibility**

Please check if you are a member of the Escape Room Enthusiasts group on
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/groups/escaperoomenthusiasts   
*Checkbox answer*

Do you run/own an escape room?   
*Option select answer*

- *Yes*
- *No*

**Your Escape Room**
*Please note that all questions are optional.*

Please state the location of your escape room(s).   
*Text entry answer*

For how many years have you been working in the escape room industry?   
*Option select answer*

- *Less than 1 year*
- *1 year*
- *2 years*
- *3 years*
- *4 years*
- *5 years or more*

Which of the following features do you already offer as part of the escape room
experience?   
*Matrix answer*

*Rows:*

- *Leaderboard*
- *Sharing photos with the community*
- *Membership*
- *In-character communication with the party before booking*
- *Communication with the group during the session (e.g. timer,hints)*
- *Metrics (e.g.: how long does it take for people to complete puzzles?)*
- *Matching solo participants/small parties into groups*
- *Advertisement among other escape rooms*

*Columns:*

- *Not offered*
- *Interested in offering*
- *Offered*

Please provide any additional details with regards to the previous question
here.   
*Text entry answer*

To which of the following features would/do you apply technology in your
offering?   
*Matrix answer*

*Rows:*

- *Leaderboard*
- *Sharing photos with the community*
- *Membership*
- *In-character communication with the party before booking*
- *Communication with the group during the session (e.g. timer, hints)*
- *Metrics (e.g.: how long does it take for people to complete puzzles?)*
- *Matching solo participants/small parties into groups*
- *Advertisement among other escape rooms*

*Columns:*

- *I would not apply technology to this*
- *I would apply technology to this*
- *I currently apply technology to this*

Please provide any additional details with regards to the previous question
here.   
*Text entry answer*

Which factors influence your decision when investing in technical solutions to
these problems?   
*Matrix answer*

*Rows:*

- *Cost*
- *Time taken to implement*
- *Reliability*
- *Ease of use*

*Columns:*

- *Never*
- *Rarely*
- *Sometimes*
- *Often*
- *Always*
- *I don't know*

Please name any other factors of importance not mentioned.   
(In particular, I am interested to know whether they are a priority or
significant benefit for your business.)   
*Text entry answer*

Commit message:

Add access dates to visible part of citation

contents/7-refs-appendices.md, after:

# References

N.B.: Dates given for webpages link to the earliest recorded scrape of the
webpage by the [Wayback Machine](https://archive.org/web/web.php).

::: {#refs}
:::

\backmatter

# Appendices

\pagebreak

## Appendix I: Initial Requirements

\blandscape

| MSCW | Relates to... | As a... | I want to...                                                     | So that...                           | Estimate |
| --------- | ------------- | ------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | --- |
| M         | sharing photos | maintainer  | upload photos to the site                                        | Potential customers have an idea of what the room is like and who else has been      | 5   |
| M         | sharing photos | maintainer  | remove photos from the site                                      | In the event of a DMCA/GDPR request, i can answer appropriately                    | 2   |
| M         | advertising    | maintainer  | create a public listing                                          | My room is advertised among others                                                   | 8   |
| M         | advertising    | maintainer  | remove a public listing                                          | My room is no longer shown, if that's what i wish for                              | 5   |
| M         | advertising    | maintainer  | edit a public listing                                            | My room's details are up to date                                                     | 5   |
| M         | advertising    | maintainer  | create multiple public listings against the same profile         | All of my available escape games can be represented individually                     | 2   |
| S         | advertising    | maintainer  | show links to the rest of my public listings from each one       | Customers can browse between my available rooms to find one that's suitable for them | 2   |
| S         | advertising    | maintainer  | define the difficulty of my room                                 | Potential customers know what they're up against                                     | 2   |
| S         | advertising    | viewer | see the difficulties of rooms                                    | I know what i'm up against                                                           | 1   |
| M         | advertising    | viewer | search for escape rooms                                          | It's easier for me to find a room suitable for me                                    | 13  |
| S         | advertising    | viewer | filter a room search by difficulty                               | The room i choose to take on has the appropriate level of challenge                  | 3   |
| S         | advertising    | viewer | filter a room search by location                                 | The room i choose to take on is in the appropriate location for me                   | 5   |
| S         | advertising    | viewer | filter a room search by distance from me                         | The room i choose to take on is in the appropriate location for me                   | 5   |
| S         | sharing photos | viewer | upload photos to the site against my profile                     | I have a public record of which escape rooms i have attended                         | 5   |
| M         | sharing photos | viewer | upload photos to the site against an escape room                 | The photos are visible on my public profile and friends/family can view them         | 5   |
| M         | login          | user   | sign up with email and password                                  | I have an account                                                                    | 8   |
| S         | login          | user   | have my password checked for strength                            | It is verified secure                                                                | 5   |
| W         | login          | user   | have a public profile                                            | My records are visible to others                                                     | 5   |
| W         | login          | user   | toggle privacy on my profile                                     | It is not visible to others if i don't want it to be                                 | 2   |
| W         | login          | user   | toggle privacy on my profile per-field                           | I have control over what others can see about me                                     | 13  |
| C         | login          | user   | sign in with other social networks (facebook, twitter, tumblr) | It is easier for me to share to those networks                                       | 8   |
| M         | social | viewer | record that i have finished a room                               | It appears on my profile                                                             | 8   |
| W         | social | maintainer  | configure milestones for my room                                 | Multi-stage rooms can be represented appropriately                                   | 13  |
| W         | social | user   | view a timeline                                                  | Others' clears are visible to me                                                     | 5   |
| S         | login          | user   | reset my password via email                                      | My password is changed                                                               | 5   |
| C         | login          | user   | use two-factor authentication                                    | The login flow has an additional security layer                                      | 13  |
| S         | advertising    | maintainer  | view metrics for my profile                                      |                                                                                      | 21  |
| M         | advertising    | maintainer  | choose which of my photos is the default shown                   | In search results, the default is shown first                                      | 13  |
| S         | advertising    | maintainer  | change the order in which my photos appear                       | My profile displays the photos in this order                                         | 13  |                                                                                            |
| S         | advertising    | maintainer  | use a markup language to write my profile                        | Titles, bolded sections, etc. can be shown with the correct formatting             | 5   |

\elandscape

## Appendix II: Escape Room Owner Survey

\pagebreak

**Eligibility**

Please check if you are a member of the Escape Room Enthusiasts group on
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/groups/escaperoomenthusiasts   
*Checkbox answer*

Do you run/own an escape room?   
*Option select answer*

- *Yes*
- *No*

**Your Escape Room**
*Please note that all questions are optional.*

Please state the location of your escape room(s).   
*Text entry answer*

For how many years have you been working in the escape room industry?   
*Option select answer*

- *Less than 1 year*
- *1 year*
- *2 years*
- *3 years*
- *4 years*
- *5 years or more*

Which of the following features do you already offer as part of the escape room
experience?   
*Matrix answer*

*Rows:*

- *Leaderboard*
- *Sharing photos with the community*
- *Membership*
- *In-character communication with the party before booking*
- *Communication with the group during the session (e.g. timer,hints)*
- *Metrics (e.g.: how long does it take for people to complete puzzles?)*
- *Matching solo participants/small parties into groups*
- *Advertisement among other escape rooms*

*Columns:*

- *Not offered*
- *Interested in offering*
- *Offered*

Please provide any additional details with regards to the previous question
here.   
*Text entry answer*

To which of the following features would/do you apply technology in your
offering?   
*Matrix answer*

*Rows:*

- *Leaderboard*
- *Sharing photos with the community*
- *Membership*
- *In-character communication with the party before booking*
- *Communication with the group during the session (e.g. timer, hints)*
- *Metrics (e.g.: how long does it take for people to complete puzzles?)*
- *Matching solo participants/small parties into groups*
- *Advertisement among other escape rooms*

*Columns:*

- *I would not apply technology to this*
- *I would apply technology to this*
- *I currently apply technology to this*

Please provide any additional details with regards to the previous question
here.   
*Text entry answer*

Which factors influence your decision when investing in technical solutions to
these problems?   
*Matrix answer*

*Rows:*

- *Cost*
- *Time taken to implement*
- *Reliability*
- *Ease of use*

*Columns:*

- *Never*
- *Rarely*
- *Sometimes*
- *Often*
- *Always*
- *I don't know*

Please name any other factors of importance not mentioned.   
(In particular, I am interested to know whether they are a priority or
significant benefit for your business.)   
*Text entry answer*
